Add prefer-result-array-groups rule (#351)
ota-meshi/eslint-plugin-regexp: docs/rules/prefer-result-array-groups.md

---
pageClass: "rule-details"
sidebarDepth: 0
title: "regexp/prefer-result-array-groups"
description: "enforce using result array `groups`"
---
# regexp/prefer-result-array-groups

> enforce using result array `groups`

- :exclamation: <badge text="This rule has not been released yet." vertical="middle" type="error"> ***This rule has not been released yet.*** </badge>
- :wrench: The `--fix` option on the [command line](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/command-line-interface#fixing-problems) can automatically fix some of the problems reported by this rule.

## :book: Rule Details

> This rule reports and fixes index access in regexp result array that do not use the name of their referenced capturing group.

Reviewer: I changed it a little for clarity and added a link to relevant MDN docs.

```suggestion
This rule reports and fixes regexp result arrays where named capturing groups are accessed by index instead of using [`groups`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Regular_Expressions/Groups_and_Ranges#using_named_groups).
```

<eslint-code-block fix>

```js
/* eslint regexp/prefer-result-array-groups: "error" */

> const regex = /(?<foo>a)(b)c/

Reviewer: The regex needs a `g` or `y` flag or else the `while` loop is an infinite loop.
```suggestion
const regex = /(?<foo>a)(b)c/g
```

> let re
> while (re = regex.exec(str)) {
>     /* ✓ GOOD */
>     var p1 = re.groups.foo
>     var p2 = re[2]
> 
>     /* ✗ BAD */
>     var p1 = re[1]

Reviewer: I know this is really pedantic, but could we rename `re`? People typically use `re` to mean regular expression but this variable holds a regex match. 
```suggestion
let match
while (match = regex.exec(str)) {
    /* ✓ GOOD */
    var p1 = match.groups.foo
    var p2 = match[2]

    /* ✗ BAD */
    var p1 = match[1]
```
